I keep being told that we have this
serious problem of population collapse
why is this a problem
well it seems obvious to most people
that if the population's collapsing then
the number of people is going to run out
at some point and that's terrible
let's analyze why
Elon Musk is a great proponent to this
idea that the problem is population
collapse therefore human beings should
have more children and this will solve
that problem now why is he concerned
about the number of human beings well
he's concerned about the extinction of
the species
the individual people absolutely are
concerned about losing their own lives
their quality of living going down
problems getting worse
what human beings really need is to
solve problems
everywhere in the universe where there
are people there are problems and the
problems need to be solved in order to
solve a problem you need to find a
solution to find a solution requires
creativity The Entity that creates
solutions to problems and has problems
in the first place is a person
if you begin not from the position that
the real concern is population collapse
and the humans will extinct but if
instead you begin from the position that
what we need is a concern about a lack
of creativity then we'll reach different
conclusions because the only solution to
the parochial problem of population
collapse here on Earth of humanity is
more human beings people to breed more
okay but that itself is not the
universal problem the universal problem
is the problem of a lack of creativity
one solution to a lack of creativity is
to avoid population collapse is to have
more children more power to people who
have more children I'm fully on board
with that and I think we should have a
greater population but big bad here I
want to say that it's not the only
solution to the problem of needing more
creativity which is the really truly
deep problem
so let's go through these solutions to
lack of creativity
we need more creativity solution number
one
every human being on Earth should have
more children
are creative they grow up to be creative
human beings who can solve problems and
that introduces more creativity into the
universe again the reason that we need
or creativity in the universe is so that
people will solve their problems and the
world will become a better place
that's Solution One have more children
solution two longer lives
if you want more creativity in the world
if you want to solve more problems more
rapidly just get everyone who exists
here now to live longer lives
combining one and two have more children
and I'm sure all of them live follow
their lives will be even better we have
a compound solution of both of us that's
wonderful
more children and avoiding population
collapse isn't the only solution to the
situation of needing more creativity
indeed the only solution to population
class is not having more children
another solution is have people live
longer now I know that Elon Musk says
things like people's minds become
ossified over time as they get older but
he doesn't understand why I would say
it's anti-rational memes and so that
leads to a third solution to more
creativity
solution three better ideas for each
individual
so even if we didn't have more children
more people having more children even if
we didn't have each person living a long
life both of which I think are
imminently possible we could do my third
thing which is have everyone
have better ideas by curing themselves
for anti-rational names once you're
Curative anti-rational energy yourself
will flourish better be more creative
and be able to come up with better
Solutions if the entire world was able
to transition from thinking in
authoritarian ways to thinking in
rational creative ways that would also
solve a problem with any more creativity
solving our problems more rapidly making
the world a better place and would also
mean that local population collapse
wasn't the thing because those more
creative people would also solve that
problem in various ways that I can't
even think of that's the third solution
better ideas and avoiding anti-rational
means
solution for
artificial general intelligence so this
is more people this solves the
population collapse but it's not More
Humans it's children but AGI children
and if you combine that with the
previous three solutions more human
beings have an itching being with a long
life number three importantly each of us
human beings being able to conjure
better ideas because they avoid more
interracial names they think more
rationally more creatively combine all
that with agis were trained in such a
culture we hope less International means
that also produces more creativity more
solutions and it's able to solve more
problems more rapidly
solution five
more Liberty
if we can eliminate laws regulations and
restrictions on people being able to
explore the space of ideas better and
even if we don't have more human beings
even if they don't live longer even if
they don't individually have fewer
anti-rational names and generally better
ideas are better rate either we don't
have AGI but they have more Liberty
they're able to engage in free exchange
of ideas by not being frustrated in that
attempt by regulation of speech if
they're able to participate in a fully
capitalist free market Society where
people are taking their money taxation
introduced all of that in other words
more Liberty that also will solve the
problem of getting more creativity
solving more problems and avoiding
population collapse because once more
people with more Liberty will tend to do
all of those things that lead to those
first four Solutions
so that's number five more Liberty
solution six
new and better institutions this is
related to number five where I say more
Liberty but this on focusing in
particular on the more General issue of
governance society and culture where
people are encouraged by not being
required to go to school by not being
required to adhere to authoritarian ways
of participating in society because the
police are more friendly teachers have
evolved into something other than
authority figures the government is
there to protect you rather than to
instruct you better institutions that
have slowly and incrementally increased
their capacity to facilitate societies
and cooperation in ways that allow for a
flourishing of knowledge creation
so again this encapsulates everything
else I've said previously solution six
new and better institutions that are
capped in terms of
knowledge creation creativity that will
help solve the problem of not enough
creativity in time to solve the problems
we have in time before population
collapse happens if that's a problem
solution seven
alien civilizations
I include this one just to say that the
unlikely is always around the corner we
can never predict future discoveries
future problems
what we might encounter that we haven't
yet thought of
I don't expect alien life that's
intelligent to appear in our skies
anytime soon
but that's just to say I can't predict
anything about what will appear in the
sky or rise out of the sea anytime soon
the might hinder or help us
but this problem of having problems is
only solved by more creativity which can
come from a lot of places one of which
is human beings having more children
just one but it's always the one that's
being put forth by Elon Musk in
particular but what I want to say is
there are many other solutions to the
genuinely deep problem of needing more
creativity only one of which is having
more human beings and I want more human
beings I'm not denigrating more human
beings I'm just saying it's one out of
many possible solutions to our
circumstance
another reason
people other than human beings AGI would
be one alien life would be another
either of which could be around a corner
but there's absolutely no reason to
think they genuinely are around the
corner because I see no signs that we're
making progress towards either in terms
of seti or in terms of artificial
intelligence research none of that seems
to be living leading to different kinds
of people about to be discovered
I think the search for AGI at the moment
resembles a search for City in that
we're kind of blindly groping in the
dark
but in either case these are possible
ways of getting more creativity into
physical reality one of those is has
more children another is for each person
to live longer another is for each
person to have better ideas more Liberty
in better institutions which hopefully
will raise agim and when the aliens
finally do come they'll look at us and
see us as far more enlightened than we
are now all of which will contribute to
more creativity and making physical
reality our universe better